The EFF has petitioned public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane to investigate Minister of Finance Tito Mboweni’s appointment of former journalist Ranjeni Munusamy as his political secretary/community outreach officer. Munusamy was suspended by Arena Holdings where she worked as associate editor after allegations that she benefited from State Security’s slush fund, which was abused with impunity. Munusamy’s name came up during the testimony of Hawks officer Colonel Kobus Roelofse, who told the State Capture Commission led by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo that an amount of R143 621,78 was paid to Wesbank to settle her vehicle finance. Roelofse said he came across this information while he and other colleagues were investigating the wanton abuse of the fund. He said on three occasions he asked Munusamy to give her side of the story but she failed to do so. Munusamy threatened to challenge Roloefse’s version of events at the commission after her suspension but disappeared into thin air. She has been hired by Mboweni, a move that ruffled the feathers of the EFF . EFF complained to Mkhwebane after talks with Mboweni over Munusamy’s appointment collapsed after he steadfastly contended that she would be exonerated of any wrongdoing by the commission. In the letter written by EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu on October 28, the red beret brigade asked Mkhwebane to investigate if there was a selection committee appointed in terms of Section 67 of Public Service Regulations of 2016 that hired Munusamy. They also wanted Mkhwebane to find out the date on which the committee was instituted, and the names of its members. “What were the valid methods, criteria or instruments used for selection? “We further request the public protector to investigate whether it is acceptable and rational for [the] executive authority to appoint Ms Munusamy to such a sensitive position when there was undisputed evidence submitted to the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into Allegations of State Capture that Ms Munusamy received illegal money from State Security slush fund? “We wish to request the public protector to attend to our complaint with the urgency it deserves given its sensitivity,” reads the letter. In a written response, which Sunday World has seen, Mkhwebane’s office acknowledged the EFF’s complaint and referred it to its good governance and integrity branch. Ngwako Malatji