Fashion powerhouse David Tlale has been accused of stealing The Intern By David Tlale concept from Pro Act Entertainment MD Neo Mashishi. The 2017 hit show is allegedly stolen intellectual property from what was initially meant to be The Top Designer TV Show – a fashion design competition show aimed at uncovering fashion talent in the country. “I did not have the energy to fight this before because I thought he was a big name in the fashion industry, but the guy who is fighting Somizi for stealing the Dinner at Somizi’s concept rejuvenated my spirit,” said Mashishi. Mashishi’s proposal, which Sunday World has seen, states: “Fashion and clothes are part of our lives, The Top Designer is a motivating, entertaining and exciting reality TV show affording young fashion designers a platform to showcase their talent, thus developing them to become prominent fashion designers.” Tlale’s show on its website describes itself as a “programme developed to focus on skills transfer for post graduate fashion design students who are looking to improve their skills, finish products and become market ready”. In an email dated January 2 2013 and seen by Sunday World, Mashishi told Tlale: “Hi David, I sent you The Top Designer reality TV show document and [Department of Arts and Culture] endorsement letter a week ago, you haven’t responded. I was only asking for your input since it has to do with fashion. I also called you several times, you don’t pick up my calls. May you please respond.” Tlale responded a few minutes later, telling Mashishi: “Hi Neo, apologies.Im in Mumbai thus no answering of calls, got your proposal. Since it’s been holidays [I] will get back to you next week or soo[ner].” Mashishi claims he was never favoured with a response. Tlale confirmed he knew Mashishi but denied stealing his ideas. “I have been attacked over the years by people who claim that I have stolen their fashion designs and other things, now he claims that I stole his show? I will not be entertaining this at all,” Tlale said. “Whether I have worked or communicated with him about such before does not matter. I am not going to discuss this with anyone.” boitu Boitumelo Kgobotlo