Generations: The Legacy actress Letoya Makhene and her idlozi (ancestor) have been
officially asked for their hand in marriage by businesswoman Lebohang Keswa. The celebrity couple confirmed to Sunday World that Keswa and her family representatives visited Makhene’s household in Tladi, Soweto, to pay the bridal price yesterday. The two had an engagement ceremony on  October 17. Keswa said that she was ecstatic to finally pay off lobola for the Ithonga Lami hitmaker and learn the sangomas’ tradition in running the lobola negotiations. In an exclusive joint statement that Sunday World has seen, the lovebirds said they were overwhelmed with joy to finally have their families and spirits joined as one. “When you lobola a woman you’re paying respect to her parents and family and thanking them for your future wife. Ukulobola idlozi is paying respect to the ancestors for the gift of the person that is in your life. “In ancient times, sangomas lived and died without a partner in their lives. Over time, they evolved and fell in love, and this process helps smooth out what could be a very complicated relationship. “It allows your ancestors to understand and give space to the person that is in your life and it allows a sangoma to have a healthy and peaceful relationship,” said the couple. Makhene said she was grateful to be a resident in a country that allows same-sex marriages because many people of the pride community never had a chance to enjoy their union. “We’ve come very far and I am grateful that I live in a time where I can celebrate my love for my partner in this way. As I settle down with my lifetime partner, I will always remember those who fought so hard for me to be able to be where I am today. “People will always have something to talk about, whether you do good or bad. The important thing about life is to live it for you. We only have one life and what you do with it and how you choose to live it is up to you. “As long as you live a God-centred life and always treat others how you would want to be treated, the universe will always bless you because that’s what you put out,” said Makhene. Boitumelo Kgobotlo