Gender-Based Violence (GBV) has drawn the ire of the organisers of the Mzansi Kwaito and House Music Awards (MKHMA) as they will be taking to the streets on Tuesday. Mshoza and Drenko amongst others, will be marching in protest against GBV, as well as in support of all women who have been victims of the scourge. The marchers will assemble at Mary Fitzgerald Square in Newtown to Nelson Mandela Bridge in Braamfontein. The march is themed “Torn clothes covered in red Paint” to symbolise the trauma GBV victims go through. Kortes hit-maker Mshoza said GBV does not have to be ignored and should be treated as a disaster and with the same energy we have towards fighting COVID-19 as both threaten lives. In 2018, Mshoza opened up about her being abuse when she was in a relationship. She also claimed at the time that her husband tried to kill her. “I’m supporting the idea behind this march and I truly wish that people will come through because turning a blind eye means we support men involved in these deadly deeds,” said the songstress. “I have flashbacks, but we must know that marches only show that we are against GBV, what we need more is to pray for our people who are forever being victimised. Women and men need to feel loved not hated, violence brings more pain in their lives,” she added. MKHMA director Perfecta Malinga said the entertainment industry carried a lot of GBV cases and they had to stand up against anyone who is violated. “Over the years, musicians have not only been perpetrators of GBV, but they have also fallen victims. Sexual assault and harassment in the music industry is rife and MKHMA would like to raise their voice and inform musicians and the country at large that ‘enough is enough’. “A number of allegations have been levelled against the likes of popular musicians such as Babes Wodumo, Mampintsha, Sjava, Euphonik, Arthur Mafokate and Mdu Masilela. It’s becoming clearer that the music industry is part of the problem. We call on our government, the justice system and fellow musicians to take a stand against GBV,” said Malinga. She said during the march they ensure that regulations set for mass gatherings during the Coronavirus lockdown are adhered to while fighting against violence towards women and wrongful GBV accusations against men. 