Limpopo health MEC Dr Phophi Ramathuba has expressed her concerns over the increasing number of the novel COVID-19 cases in the Province. According to the department, the province has reached and exceeded the thousand mark on cases of COVID-19 with 5 deaths recorded in the past week. The department also said it was saddened to confirm that 5 more deaths which happened on different days in the past week as announced by the minister are COVID 19 related bringing the total of deaths to 10 In a media statement today, the department announced that there were 1018 cumulative cases. Currently Capricorn and Waterberg districts are leading with 229 cumulative cases and highest number of recoveries. Ramathuba said Waterberg has recorded 21 cases in the past 24hours while Capricorn is at 16. “While the numbers grow, we are also encouraged by the number of recoveries which are at0 above 50 percent. Of the total number of infections, 520 have recovered,” Ramathuba said. “All these deaths were diagnosed posthumously since all of them died less than 12hours upon arrival in our different facilities both public and private across the province. All these cases had comorbidities and the reasons for visiting our emergency centers were as a result of complications due to their chronic known ailments. The department conveys its deepest condolences to their families,” she added. As the number of cases rapidly surges, Ramathuba has also expressed concern over the latest workplace cluster outbreak involving SANDF members deployed in Lephalale.
At least 38 cases have been recorded in the camp within the last 24 hours and are all under isolation being monitored. According to the reports, the infected soldiers are from Cape Town who came to Limpopo last week as part of the battalion that was deployed to monitor lockdown compliance. “We have reported the matter to the minister of health and head of Military health services and through their guidance we are confident that we will work together to make sure we contain the spread,” she adds. “We call for calm amongst the people of Lephalale and reiterate our message that the only way we can protect ourselves from getting infected is not by discrimination or blaming others but by handwashing with water and soap, practicing social distance and wearing of mask. This is the time where self-discipline is required. All those with comorbidities must stay at home. Those who are vulnerable please self-quarantine at home. Protect yourself from getting infected cause you will not survive this virus,” she concludes. Meta Mphahlele