Rapper wants to appeal sentence Disgraced rapper Pitch Black Afro, whose real name is Thulani Ngcobo, and his lawyer Riaan Greyling are at loggerheads over his plans to appeal both the judgment and sentence handed down by the Joburg High Court this week. The rapper was found guilty of culpable homicide and sentenced to 10 years imprisonment with half the sentence suspended for the death of his ancé, Catherine Modisane. He was facing a charge of murder and defeating the ends of justice a¢er he was accused to killing Modisane and cleaning the house to get rid of the evidence. The rapper said he intends to appeal both the judgment and sentence, stating that he is not guilty of any charge. He said the judge erred in his judgment by accepting the police’s version that he confessed to the murder while he had not done so. Greyling confirmed that he and the rapper have different views about the judgment and sentence. He told Sunday World that the rapper might have to nd a private lawyer if he wants to appeal. “He told me that he wants to appeal the matter, but as for me, my work is done here. I told him I don’t think we must appeal the matter, but he wants to do so,” said Greyling immediately after the sentence was handed down. Greyling said he believes the judge applied the law correctly, saying the judge was lenient a¢er considering the circumstances around the murder of Modisane. He said the judge correctly considered that the rapper was provoked by Modisane, and that he still had a good relationship with her family in that he was allowed to contribute money towards the burial. Greyling added that the judge also correctly ruled that there was no evidence suggesting that the rapper had an abusive relationship with Modisane, except for that one incident. In delivering the sentence, Judge AJ du Plessis said the rapper had not shown remorse and there was no excuse for his actions in negligently causing the death of Modisane. Though he apologised for causing the death of his fiancé, he said the incident could have been avoided had she stayed in the house and not provoked him by slapping him a¢er she had accused him of cheating. National Prosecuting Authority’s prosecutor, Patience Moleko, said the rapper has indicated he wants to appeal the judgment and sentence. 