Limpopo calls for return of VBS-linked members The Limpopo ANC provincial executive committee (PEC) has recommended to the ANC national executive committee (NEC) that two of its officials implicated in advocate Terry Motau’s VBS Mutual Bank report be reinstated. The decision to reinstate provincial treasurer Danny Msiza and deputy chairperson Florence Radzilani was taken at a special PEC meeting on Tuesday. The two ANC officials had been asked to vacate their positions by the integrity committee of the ANC after they were named in Motau’s report titled “The Great Bank Heist” in 2018. The VBS executives accused of being responsible for the bank’s collapse have since been arrested and appeared in court last week. Despite the latest developments, Sunday World can reveal that the majority of members of the Limpopo ANC PEC resolved that the two officials should be reinstated. According to three PEC members and Peter Mokaba ANC regional chairperson John Mpe, the two officials were hard done by, their organisation, including the integrity committee, as they were yet to be charged, two years later, for their alleged wrongdoing as alleged in the VBS report. Mpe, Msiza’s ally and PEC member, who attended the meeting, confirmed that the provincial structure had recommended to the NEC to review the decision to ask Msiza and Radzilani to step aside, saying the majority of PEC members felt there was no justice on the matter. “The PEC felt that it must have a view on the ma er because people have been representing their own interests at NEC meetings. We deliberated on the ma er and consensus was reached to say that there was a need for administration of justice in the matter. We agreed as a collective that the ANC needs to review the stepping down of the two officials,” said Mpe. Mpe said Msiza and Radzilani were not given the opportunity to present their side of the story. “There appears to be no activities that seek to nd the right information on this ma er. Justice delayed is justice denied,” he said. Mpe also warned against the use of double standards when dealing with its members, stating that some officials, such as KwaZulu-Natal provincial deputy chairperson Mike Mabuyakhulu – who is facing corruption charges – were charged by in court, yet had not been asked to step down. He said the two Limpopo officials were not charged or found guilty, yet they were asked to step aside. Two other PEC members who attended the meeting also confirmed the details. They said that the province could not afford to go into the NEC meeting without its own position on the matter. “There’s consensus among general membership that the two comrades must come back to office,” said one of the PEC members. The other PEC member said provincial secretary Soviet Lekganyane and provincial chairperson Stanley Mathabatha were given a mandate to present the position of the PEC at this weekend’s NEC meeting. Sunday World understands that some PEC members raised concerns with President Cyril Ramaphosa and Luthuli House’s slow pace in dealing with the matter. ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe said the ma er of the two ANC officials was discussed by the NEC in the last meeting and was referred to the integrity committee for processing. On the PEC’s resolution that Msiza and Radzilani be reinstated, Mabe said provinces always make reports to the NEC to be considered for discussions, noting that if the ma er gets discussed, the ANC will communicate the outcome. 