Church wants members to pay for policy even as no worship takes place  The Zion Christian Church (ZCC) has made a fresh call for its members to go to church to pay kganya after making a U-turn on an initial call following resistance from some of its members. The call for members to pay kganya, which appears to be a burial society fund or funeral policy, burst into the public domain when Thomani Mudau, secretary of the district property task team (DPTT), issued a letter to all church development committees of the Pretoria West and east branches on June 2 asking them to reopen churches for the purpose of kganya payment. The letter, which is in our possession, reads: “Kindly be informed that the churches will be opened for the purposes of payments ‘for dipukwana tsa kganya’.” The letter said the task team, together with its health professional, would ensure safety measures to curb the possible spread of the virus. The letter was followed by a withdrawal letter on June 6 by Violet Lebete, who also called herself the DPTT secretary. Sunday World understands the initial letter was withdrawn after several church members, including advocate Jerry Koma, raised concerns about the kganya payment. Another letter, this time with a letter head bearing Bishop Barnabas Lekganyane and signed by at least 13 people, was then sent out on Tuesday. Speaking to Sunday World, Koma confirmed that he had raised the matter with the committee and objected to the kganya payment. He also said he went further to raise the matter with ZCC secretary-general Ephraim Mafetsa, who told him to obey instructions from the church. “The problem is that the instructions were issued by the bishop that we should not reopen despite the president’s call for the churches to open during level three [of the lockdown],” said Koma. “Now we were surprised when we received such a letter that the branches should be opened for the purpose of paying kganya. Koma continued: “This is a problem because other church leaders were condemned when they asked their members to donate during the lockdown. The other problem is that kganya doesn’t cover your kids or spouse even if you are married in community of property. “Your kids must have their own kganya books, your spouse must have his or her own book. This is not fair at all.” Mafetsa ignored our phone calls and questions we sent to his cellphone. Ngwako Malatji