Limpopo police have waged war against illicit cigarettes smugglers after recording a surge in tobacco smuggling since COVID-19 lockdown. Four suspects aged between 32 and 34 were arrested on Sunday, 28 June in a joint police operation on the N1 between Beitbridge and Musina after they were found in possession of illicit cigarettes valued at over R1 million. Three vehicles including an Opel Corsa pick-up van and two NP 300 bakkies were also confiscated during the arrests. Limpopo police spokesperson Motlafela Mojapelo said SAPS members including the K9 unit, the South African National Defence Force and Custom officials jointly conducted a snap operation along the N1 between Beitbridge and Musina after receiving information about certain individuals smuggling illicit cigarettes into the country. Mojapelo said a vehicle with two occupants was then stopped and when the members searched it, illicit cigarettes were found stacked in bags. He added that the suspects, all foreign nationals, are expected to appear in Musina magistrate court soon. “Further probe conducted by the members at the scene led them to the nearby mall where another suspect was found loading illicit cigarettes into a vehicle. The suspect attempted to evade arrest but was quickly apprehended after a short pursuit. The vehicle and the cigarettes were confiscated,” he said “Another information surfaced that these cigarettes were to be transported to a certain warehouse in Musina town where more cigarettes were stored. The team rushed to the given address and on arrival, a vehicle already loaded with illicit cigarettes was found parked at the said warehouse”. “The team started searching and master boxes of more illicit cigarettes were found in one of the rooms. The search continued and more cigarettes were found in another room and as the members were busy unpacking them, one suspect was found hidden between the boxes and was immediately apprehended,” he concludes. Tobacco sales continue to be banned in the country in an effort to curb the spread of novel coronavirus. 