Socialite falls behind on her payments Actress and reality TV star Uyanda Mbuli is struggling to make ends meet and has returned to ex-husband Sisa Mbuli’s house in Kyalami, northern Johannesburg. Sunday World can exclusively reveal that Uyanda, who recently featured on the telenovela The Queen, has defaulted on her Absa credit card for at least a year and has also failed to pay for her Foschini store account. According to documents in our possession, Uyanda opened the Foschini account on May 4 1995 with an opening balance of R19 408. But the high-flying socialite has failed to pay the account for several months. It is now in arrears by R4 279. The Mrs Globe South Africa 2005 has also failed to service her Absa credit card for several months. Documents show the opening balance on the credit card was R28 000 when she obtained it on April 29 2009. The amount overdue is now R46 042. The account has since been handed over to LGR Attorneys in Pretoria for collection. “It appears she is financially struggling and if she doesn’t deal with her challenges quickly, she will be blacklisted. Her credit profile is extremely poor,” said our deep throat who is privy to her finances. Uyanda’s acquaintances also confirmed the former SABC1 publicist has returned to live with ex-hubby Sisa Mbuli. The two divorced acrimoniously around 2015. During the divorce proceedings the two, who were married in community of property, were expected to sell their matrimonial home and share the proceeds, but Sisa bought her out of the palatial home. “But she is now back and living with Sisa under the same roof. She returned there before the lockdown and has been living there since. It is not clear if they have rekindled their love,” said the associate. Another associate close to the duo confirmed Uyanda has moved back into Sisa’s crib. “She has been visiting Sisa in the house and they both smoked the peace pipe after their fight,” said the source. Sisa declined to comment. Uyanda’s publicist Simphiwe Majola had not responded to the list of questions sent to him at the time of going to print. 