Award-winning artist Zakes Bantwini and his wife Nandi Mngoma dropped a bombshell when they applied for a court order to remove the songstress from their multimillion-rand joint estate. The showbiz’s power couple’s joint estate includes a R3.5-million house in KwaZulu-Natal and a R1.5-million property in Gauteng. Sunday World can exclusively reveal that the couple, who got married in community of property four years ago, petitioned the Joburg High Court last week to dissolve their marriage. In his affidavit seen by Sunday World, Bantwini said he and Mngoma erroneously entered into in community of property marriage because of their “misunderstanding with the marriage officer”. He is pleading with the court to allow them to convert their union to out of community of property. Bantwini, who is the first applicant in the case, said he got hitched to Mngoma on June 8 2016 in Pinetown, KwaZulu-Natal, in community of property. He said before their marriage, he and Mngoma, who is the second applicant in the case, had planned to be married out of community of property without the application of the accrual system. Bantwini’s affidavit reads: “And as a result of misunderstanding between ourselves and the marriage officer, who conducted the marriage ceremony, we understood incorrectly as it now appears that he would be in position to ensure that our marriage would be out of community of property without the applica- tion of the accrual system. “At all material times, it was the intention of the second applicant and myself to be married out of community of property without application of the accrual system.” Bantwini also said he only discovered when he was discussing their “personal financial affairs” Power couple have cited ‘misunderstanding’ with Mngoma’s bank that they were married in community of property. The muso, real name Zakhele Madida, said Mngoma, who was the face of Legit and iconic soap brand Lux, doesn’t have assets to her name. He, meanwhile, owns a R3.4 million house in Morn- ingside, KwaZulu-Natal, and a R1.5 million crib in Thornhill, Modderfontein, in Joburg. He added that he and Mngoma would enter into a post-nuptial notarial contract and would not prefer the accrual system to apply into post-nuptial notarial contract because they individually have successful careers and independent sources of income. Mngoma, the Skhanda Love singer, signed a confirmatory affidavit agreeing to the dissolution of their in community of property marriage. The couple has two children. Ngwako Malatji