The late IPHC leader Glayton Modise’s son, Leonard Modise, has demanded that his disputed half-brother, Michael Sandlana, return all the church properties he allegedly unlawfully acquired. Leonard has also demanded that Sandlana undergo a paternity test to determine if he is indeed the biological son of Modise. He has also demanded that Sandlana produce evidence that contrary to claims that the late church leader died intestate, he had left behind a written will and DVD that contain details of the beneficiaries of his personal wealth worth hundreds of millions of rand. These demands, he said, were tabled in the mediation meeting organised by the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL Rights Commission) in Pretoria last month to resolve the raging violence among IPHC’s three warring factions led by him, his biological brother Tshepiso and Sandlana. The mediation meeting was convened to broker peace talks after five people were killed and women and children held hostage at the church’s headquarters, Silo, in Zuurbekom, where Leonard lives. The three factions have been embroiled in a protracted war over who must succeed Modise as leader of the church, which is the second-biggest after ZCC and has assets and cash worth nearly R2-billion. “The IPHC responded to an invitation from the CRL’s chairperson professor, David Mosoma, dated July 15 2020[and] requesting that the church participates in a three-day mediation engagement in Hatfield, Pretoria,” reads a statement by Leonard. “Our record of understanding is that the three-day ‘mediation’ concluded as follows: All bona fide members of the IPHC would cherish it if Michael Sandlana could publicly clear the rumours that he was His Grace Comforter MG Modise’s son or avail himself with a high sense of urgency for a DNA test if he is of the conviction that he is the son of His Grace Comforter MG Modise. “It would be further cherished if he could avail the alleged will and DVD in his possession to authorities so that their validity can also be tested as the family and estate executors are not aware of the existence of such a will or DVD. “Finally, all illegally acquired family properties in his possession or that of his followers must be returned to their rightful owner with immediate effect.” Leonard said although it was agreed that the factions must remain at their respective places of worships pending the outcome of the legal process to determine who is the rightful heir to succeed Modise, he noted with concerned CRL Rights Commission spokesperson Mpiyakhe Mkholo’s statement purported to be resolutions of the mediation that the three factions will converge annually at Silo for pilgrimage and church rituals. “[He also said] the church does not have a succession plan when we told them about our succession plan and even showed them our succession plan, which is enshrined in our constitution,” he said. “The spokesperson’s statement, made on behalf of the CRL, is misleading, is bound to flare tensions and undo the first steps taken by the CRL in its effort at mediation.” Ngwako Malatji