Chiefs’ unbeaten derby record remains intact Kaizer Chiefs consolidated their spot at the summit of the Absa Premiership table after claiming a 1-0 success over traditional rivals Orlando Pirates at a sold-out FNB Stadium Saturday. Playmaker Lebogang Manyama scored the only goal of the match, ensuring his coach Ernst Middendorp’s unbeaten Soweto derby record remains intact. It was the German’s eighth Soweto derby. Middendorp now has five wins and three draws. It is the third time Amakhosi beat Bucs this season, twice in the league and in the Telkom Cup. While Pirates kept the same starting line-up as in their previous outings, Chiefs surprisingly tweaked their usual formation by nullifying the left-back position by playing three centre-backs in Eric Mathoho, Daniel Cardoso and Kgotso Moleko, with the latter occasionally helping at left- back. Another surprise in the Chiefs’ Starting XI was Khama Billiat starting on the bench. The absence of a natural left- back for Amakhosi invited threat down the left flank as Pirates penetrated through it via the likes of Vincent Pule and Luvuyo Memela. However, Chiefs’ tactical discipline at the back came handy. The first half also produced a lot of fouls, with Chiefs getting many their way. This triggered a series of scu£es among players. In the thick of these confrontations, referee Luxolo Badi cut a calm figure and never succumbed to pressure from the roaring crowd. Chiefs keeper Daniel Akpeyi, who has been under fire of late following his mistake that gifted Maritzburg United a 2-1 win at the same venue three weeks ago, produced a magnificent save. He deservedly won the man of the match award. With an overloaded midfield of Willard Katsande, George Maluleka, Manyama and Kearyn Baccus, the Glamour Boys won more battles in the middle of the park. Chiefs’ persistence would only pay off on the half-hour mark when Manyama scored a cracker. It all started when Bucs’ rightback Mthokozisi Dube lost possession on his half, allowing Reeve Frosler to pounce before teeing up Manyama to beat Wayne Sandilands. It were Chiefs again who started brighter in the second period. Maluleka played a key role in Amakhosi’s early supremacy on the ball in the second-half, spraying some threatening long balls to towering strikers Leonardo Castro and Samir Nurkovic upfront. Midway through, table turned as Pirates pilled more pressure but Akpeyi stood firm and kept Chiefs in the game, pulling out superb saves. Other results
• Golden Arrows and Highlands Park settled for a share of the spoils after playing to a 1-1 draw at the Sugar Ray Xulu Stadium Saturday.
• Maritzburg United recorded an impressive 3-0 win over Stellenbosch in a Premiership match at the Harry Gwala Stadium on Friday night By Own Correspondent