Popular comedian Tshepo Mogale of Siyaswima fame is failing to swim out of his bond repayment with Standard Bank. Mogale, who took the South African music industry by storm with his musical comedy kwaito album Spykos in early 2000, has been dragged to court by one of South Africa’s biggest banks after  failing to pay his  bond instalment of almost R4000 a month. According to the papers seen by Sunday World, Mogale obtained a R400 000 loan from the bank to buy a townhouse in the ritzy suburb of Midrand on August 14 2007. He was expected to pay a monthly instalment of just over R3500 for 240 months. But he breached his loan agreement with the bank when he defaulted on his bond payment for five months and was more than R21 000 in arrears as of March this year. The bank’s lawyers, Stupel & Berman, wrote him a letter informing him of his arrears and, also asking him to pay and keep his account up to date. They said the star failed or refused to settle the arrears and as a result, the bank wanted to cancel the agreement and get  a court order to force him to pay more than R318 000, which was the outstanding balance of the bond he obtained. “The defendant had failed to make payment of the full monthly instalment amounts due under the loan agreement and was consequently in breach of the loan agreement. The plaintiff is accordingly entitled to claim the total amount owing by the defendant to the plaintiff under the loan agreement and to cancel the loan agreement, which it hereby elects to do,” read the papers. The lawyers said the bank’s call centre agents also phoned Mogale 120 times in bid to assist the Laugh Out Loud sensation to regularise his arrears, with no success. They also said they sent him text messages. Now they want an order from the court compelling the comedian to pay the more than R318000 outstanding plus interest. If he fails to pay, they want the property to be declared executable and for a writ of execution to attach the property and auction it off to the highest bidder. Mogale did not respond to any of our messages or calls. Ngwako Malatji