 Spring is here and so is Heritage Month – a time for South Africans to showcase the things they are most proud of and what makes them unique. Lindiwe Miyambu, African Bank’s Group Executive: Human Capital, says Heritage Month is the ideal opportunity to introduce a new family tradition; something that will be handed down to generations to come. “Good money management is a wonderful example of a tradition you can create in your family. Parents often budget and do their financial planning behind the scenes. Children take it for granted that mom and dad know how to work with money because they seem to have everything covered each month.” Being successful is also a heritage that future generations can benefit from. It is important for parents to think about whether they want their children to have a heritage of struggling and poverty or a heritage of success and financial freedom. “Obviously, parents want their children to have bright futures and be able to provide for their own families. This is why teaching children good money habits from an early age is so important. With the right guidance and tools, they can steer their own path to financial freedom. It is a priceless gift to give your children. “Even financial opportunities such as lobola, paid to the bride’s family, can afford the married couple’s future children a good start in life. Exercising restraint and spending wisely when it comes to the wedding will ensure you can put some money aside too as a nestegg for your children’s futures,” Miyambu points out. She adds that the road to financial freedom is not always smooth-sailing and does require sacrifices, but that children of all ages can be taught good money habits. Ways to start age-appropriate money lessons: Age 3 to 10: Age 11 to 16 Age 17 to 20 Miyambu concludes that it is important to teach children the value of money. If they embrace the teachings, they are bound to pass these onto their own children one day. “This would be a powerful legacy to leave behind. Wouldn’t it be special to always be remembered as that family member who gave great money advice and who always knew the best ways to build wealth?” Visit the African Bank website or like them on Facebook PREPARED ON BEHALF OF AFRICAN BANK BY CATHY FINDLEY PR. CONTACT JACQUI RORKE ON *protected email* OR (011) 463-6372 WITH ANY CONSUMER PR QUERIES.   SUNDAY WORLD