 The South African Football Association has announced that the country’s top celebrity gamers have been invited to take part in Fifa’s inaugural eNations Stay and Play Cup which will pit some of the world’s top game players with top footballers globally. In the launch event which kicks off on Tuesday, April 21, the South African team, known as eBafana Bafana, includes Bafana Bafana and Mamelodi Sundowns player Sibusiso Vilakazi, Proteas fast bowler Kagiso Rabada, musician Cassper Nyovest and well-known gamer, Thabo Moloi. Fifa, in partnership with Electronic Arts (EA Sports), have created an online competition for nations during the lockdown affecting most countries whose competitions have been suspended. The FIFA eNations Stay and Play Cup, is designed to encourage players and fans to stay at home during the rampant novel COVID-19 pandemic and South Africa is one of the countries invited by the world football governing body to take part. This is also done to support the World Health Organisation (WHO) in their fight against the spread of the coronavirus. Inqaku FC (PTY) Ltd in,  a licensed partnership with Safa, have announced the team to represent South Africa on the Playstation platform with Moloi leading the pack. Moloi is a known gamer who has won various competitions and is the current leading South African on the Fifa gaming rankings on PS4. The guest players, the eBafanaBafana team will compete in Group D from Tuesday. The tournament has 40 nations broken down in three sections by time zones and the central section with 25 countries from Europe, Africa and the Middle East. The winners of each section will win a prize money donation awarded to their chosen national charity organisation fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. With its longstanding partnership with Safa, the Nelson Mandela Children’s Fund (NMCF) has been chosen as team South Africa’s charity of choice. Safa president Danny Jordaan said all players and fans must stay safe during this period and add a voice to protect one another and those that are vulnerable. Xolile Mtshazo