Goodwill Malinga is proving to be more than just a doctor of entertainment, but an entrepreneur with his  nger in many pies. The 39-year-old Dr Malinga said after opening his resort, Lingas Resort, in Soshanguve last month – other celebrities should not be afraid to venture into new avenues other than their skilled craft. His vision, besides dying a wealthy man, is to help communities become successful. He said he is a brand, with products ranging from Dr Malinga Kick It Safe condoms, Linga’s water, as well as Linga’s atchar, all part of his stable. He also plans to launch a school shoe range in his name. But he counts the resort as his biggest achievement to date.  “I thought of the idea because I am a guy who likes to have fun. I naturally want other people to have fun. It will also be a place where they can rest,” he said, adding that ‘comfy’ accommodation is already under construction. Malinga said next on the cards is swimwear by Linga, that will be sold at the establishment, as well as making the business a franchise that can be enjoyed in other parts of the country. “I want business people in ekasi selling vetkoek to be able to come and sell their goods at my place too. Help them grow.” Malinga raved that the pool is the biggest in Tshwane and that he will soon introduce slides and other facilities to make it a full-on water park. “As entertainers, we see so many people die broke. It’s always good to have a side business. You will never be broke in January.” Other celebrities who have successful side hustles include J’Something, the musician-cum chef who has an eatery and cookbook, while actress Ntando Duma developed the Spaza Eats App, which allows food like kotas to be delivered to township locations. Oskido co-owns a Japanese restaurant in Waterfall Corner in Woodmead that won Best Restaurant in the Best of Joburg Readers’ Choice Awards within a few months of opening last year. Rapper Youngsta has his own branded apparel titled YGen, while Thando Thabethe has a saucy underwear label, aptly titled Thabooty. “It’s all about celebrating women’s bodies in all shapes, sizes, and shades, staying true to the foundation of the Thabooty’s brand. A bikini body is anybody in a bikini and not just for petite bodies,” Thabethe told Drum magazine recently. By Somaya Stockenstroom