The National African Federated Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Nafcoc) this week said it was willing to heal the rifts that have bedeviled the organisation in the past few years, after its erstwhile president, Sam Motsuenyane, urged it to unite for the sake of black businesses. Motsuenyane did not mince his words when he addressed the funeral of the late founder and  first president of Nafcoc, Richard Maponya, bemoaning the current state of the business body. “I am personally aggrieved that Nafcoc, which Maponya and his compatriots worked hard to build up, is still struggling to build unity within their ranks. It is deeply disturbing,” Motsuenyane said. Nafcoc, which counts the likes of business magnate Patrice Motsepe as a former president, is a vast organisation with representation in all nine provinces. It executes its mandate through sector-specific chambers that offer relevant business support services to its members depending on the sector chamber they are affiliated to. The organisation has been embroiled in leadership squabbles and factional wrangles in the past few years. Nafcoc secretary-general Steve Skhosana said the divisions were caused by power- mongering and divergent views. “We also want unity. It
is unfortunate that Motsuenyane used the wrong platform to raise the issues he raised. I don’t think his speech writer or himself have a full comprehension of the Nafcoc issues at present,” Skhosana said. “We have different views in the organisation. Some people are of the view that they will continue fronting for white businesses, while others have taken a stance that they can’t take those businesses that front for white businesses seriously. We want genuine business to be part of Nafcoc. Nothing more, nothing less.” He added that the current leaders were of the view that two conditions needed to be met before Nafcoc could be able to heal the divisions. “Firstly, people have to be members of Nafcoc in good standing. Secondly, the previous leadership must respect the constitution of Nafcoc,” he said. By Kabelo Khumalo