Former Isidingo actor and TV presenter Tshepo Maseko and late gospel singer Sifiso Ncwane’s widow, Ayanda, are on a journey to uncover talented preachers. The duo feature in a new reality show, Calling The Called – Preachers Challenge. Maseko, who is the host, and Ncwane, one of the judges, are trying to find the right man or woman of God who will be able to connect with people through the gospel. GauTV station director Ruth Mabona said the show, which kicked off during the festive season, is trying to help viewers separate real preachers from fakes. Mabona said: “We have seen shows about talented singers and soccer players, but this is unique in this category of television content. “We are ready for a new level of meaningful television. There are a lot of preachers that are called, but most of them are not identified or given a chance to actually be able to have their own churches. “We are also calling those who have been ordained but have not developed their gift and also help them to start their churches.” Starting a church needs a lot of money, said Mabona, adding that it was a challenge to start a ministry without the backing of a pastor under whom you work. “This is why we have so many false prophets, it’s because the real prophets don’t have the money to start a church.” The winner of the show will take home a brand-new car and prizes worth R1-million, which include enrolment to a school that teaches the basics of being a preacher. “It is about empowering those who are gifted to preach the word of God but lack the resources to start their own church. “We are looking for people who are going to preach the word of God and not pollute it.” Familiar faces such as David Molapo and pastor Annanius Ralekholela are among the judges. However, popular prophet Paseka “Mboro” Motsoeneng of the Incredible Happenings Christian Church in Katlehong, east of Joburg, told Sunday World this week that he was not sure about the motive of having talent shows that look for the best preachers. He added that such talent shows should rather be about trying to correct what is currently happening in church. “I don’t want to comment on this type of show because there are really just many things wrong about it,” he said. By Nokuthula Zwane