Queen of Venda wedding songs Makhadzi demands her performance money from her manager and Rita Dee Entertainment director Rita Dee. The Matorokisi hit-maker, a track which excited people throughout the last festive season, has alleged on social media that Rita has been ignoring her calls when enquiring about the money she must be paid. According to a source close to Makhadzi, real name Ndivhudzannyi Ralivhhona, she bagged over R1-million during her December gigs performances but her manager has since failed to give Makhadzi her share. In a series of posts, she alleged that she always had to beg her manager to pay her and would miss her personal payments while waiting for her manager to deposit money. “I wanted to buy something today [but] I waited, [I] promised the seller that I will pay in hours time because I knew my manager used to switch off her phone but she will soon get back to me,” reads part of the post. However, in another post she said there was no need to get a new manager as she believed that she was under good management but Rita had to change her way of running the company. In Venda language, the Tshelede Iya Hana singer also exposed her manager’s drinking problem which she alleged was the sole reason Rita blew their money and would not take her calls when she needed her most. “And after she get paid she [would] get drunk and switch off her phone, no update of what’s going on. I will call like I am crazy, imagine crying, hunting someone to give you your money. I must explain myself first… “Rita Dee I love you and I still need us to work but please change how you do things. Sometimes I become mad at you because of how you treat me. I will end up being depressed [because] you are damaging my mind instead of me being happy I must be stressed because of you,” she said. In 2019, Makhadzi had posted on Instagram that she was leaving Rita Dee Entertainment following alleged abuse by the same manager since 2014 but she later alleged that a stranger might have posted from her phone while she was still out of sight. Attempts to reach Rita Dee drew a blank as her phone rang unanswered. By Boitumelo Kgobotlo and Aubrey Mothombeni 