As Kaizer Chiefs celebrate 50 years of existence as one of the country’s leading football institutions, never has the club experienced the slump of going five seasons without winning a trophy, notwithstanding the fanfare, pomp and ceremony. Chiefs made some of the notable signings during the off-season after finishing ninth on the standings last season, although there has been no success as far as the cup competitions go. The league title looks within their grasp though, as well as the forthcoming Nedbank Cup. The biggest celebration this week was held at the first clubhouse and training field used when Amakhosi were established on January 7 1970. Current Chiefs players‚ veterans, former greats and legends‚ past and present officials and the Motaung family, led by the patriach Kaizer Motaung, joined the celebrations, marking a milestone in the history of the club. On Wednesday night, the Chiefs faithful were treated to free entry to their home game at the 90 000-seater Calabash, the FNB Stadium in Nasrec, for their second Absa Premiership match of the year against Highlands Park. The icing on the cake was a 3-0 victory over the Lions of the North. But 2020 did not start on a good note for the Naturena-based outfit as their lead at the top of the log was dented by a 2-1 loss to SuperSport United last weekend. The year-long 50th anniversary jamboree continues today when the Glamour Boys host Cape Town City at the FNB Stadium hoping to extend their six-point lead. Long-serving midelder Willard Katsande, who has been given the honours of captaining the side on this momentous occasion, is expecting a feisty affair when the Premiership trailblazers face The Citizens, but says a win is all that matters. “This is a game that everyone wants to win and everybody will be watching. It’s a very big game and we have to go there to win. How we do it isn’t really important. We know they [Cape Town City] are a great team with great players,” says Katsande. “They are always hard to play against. We don’t think like any team is doing us a favour. When we collect the three points, it’s good for the team.” By Xolile Mtshazo
mtshazox@sundayworld.co.za