Singer caught up in assault charge drama with ex Award-winning musician Simphiwe Dana is entangled in an alleged assault and intimidation drama with her ex-fiancé, Leshoto Itsweng. Dana spent a day in the holding cells at Norwood police station on Thursday. This a­fter she handed herself over to the police following a counter-charge  recently opened against her by Itsweng. She had opened an assault and intimidation charge against Itsweng last  month, alleging that her fiancé spat on her face, threatened to kill her and promised to get away with his actions by using his police contact who allegedly “runs the police force in the province”. But Dana said she was not intimidated by the counter-charge and was willing to see her case against Itsweng through to the end. She said the trend of attackers opening counter-charges is an intimidation tactic to revictimise and harass victims of intimate-partner abuse, which she has seen while also in holding cells. “The swiftness with which the police respond to the counter-charges by imprisoning the survivor serves to perpetuate inequality and revictimisation. I have to wonder why the justice system does not allow one process to conclude before addressing the counter-charges,” she said in a statement. “In no way am I suggesting that counter- charges should not be fully investigated – but I do believe that a re-examination of how they are actioned is overdue. As things stand, pressing counter-charges is increasingly being used as a weapon to intimidate women into dropping charges. In a society where violence against women is such a scourge, surely this merits some kind of review? For my part, I will continue with my case and I am committed to seeing it through to the end,” she added. Last month, Dana took to social media to open up about the abuse. “This guy spat in my face. Strangled me. Told me he will slit my throat and get away with it. A man threatening me in this way will have my wrath,” she tweeted at the time. Itsweng ignored calls and text messages sent to him. Police spokesperson Mathapelo Peters confirmed that an assault case was opened at Norwood police station last month followed by a counter-charge this week, which was later withdrawn. “A suspect was arrested on a charge of assault related to domestic violence that was reported at Norwood SAPS. The suspect is out on bail,” she said. Itsweng is expected to appear in Hillbrow magistrates court on February 18. By Boitumelo Kgobotlo
kgobotlob@sundayworld.co.za