Nyatsi threatens to call cops on wife Greater Tzaneen municipality mayor Maripe Godfrey Mangena is allegedly embroiled in a scandalous adulterous affair that resulted in his nyatsi threatening to unleash the police on his wife for harassment. Mangena has allegedly been cheating on his wife Precious Mohlago Mangena with fellow school teacher Meriam Moore Nicklet Shokane for seven years. Shokane teaches at Maluti High School in Bolobedu while Mohlago “breaks the chalk” at Moleketla Primary School in Bolobedu, outside Tzaneen. The embarrassing news came to the fore a­ter Mangena’s sultana threatened to report his wife to the police for harassment after a cat fight over the love rat ANC mayor in Tzaneen on December 20 2018. Speaking to Sunday World, Mohlago confirmed that she confronted Shokane about the alleged adulterous relationship she had had with her husband but refuted claims that she harassed her. Mohlago said she confronted Shokane after receiving a tip-off that Shokane told her close friends that Mangena had taken her as a second wife after dating her for seven years. “Why is she coming out now because the last time I spoke to her was on December 20 2018. She probably wants this matter to be in the newspapers because my husband dumped her after discovering that I was aware of their relationship. She is stressed,” said Mohlago. Mohlago, 43, also said Shokane pulled the wool over the public’s eyes when she said she was Mangena’s second wife. “My husband never married her. There was no lobolo paid for her. Nothing. She must produce that evidence to support her claims.” Sunday World understands that Shokane contacted Mohlago after their confrontation and gloated that she dated Mangena for seven years when he was just a councillor. She said when Mangena slept at her house she would do his laundry and dry it with a fan, for him to wear it to meetings the following day. Shokane further insisted that she was Mangena’s wife and warned Mohlago to refrain from harassing her, threatening to report her to the police if she continued to do so. This angered Mohlago so much that Mangena took her on holiday in a bid to save their union. Mangena declined to comment, but a source close to him said he stopped visiting Shokane’s house in Flora Park, Tzaneen, after Mohlago discovered his straying ways. “He felt that he could no longer humiliate his wife and kids by continuing to visit Meriam. That’s why he stopped visiting her. But he doesn’t have sleepless nights over the matter because he didn’t break Meriam’s marriage. “She was a divorcee when he met her and, most importantly, she carries herself with dignity, and is respectful.” Shokane declined to discuss the matter. “I’m not wiling to say anything to you because I didn’t send the message to you.” By Ngwako Malatji
ngwakom@sundayworld.co.za