He says producer Jub Jub broke undertaking to let him edit ‘Impilo’ Moja Love’s refusal to accede to controversial couple Babes Wodumo and Mampintsha’s demand for financial compensation and a right to edit the episodes of their reality show, Impilo, resulted in the musicians interdicting the channel from airing the show. The qgom artists obtained a court interdict in the Joburg High Court on Thursday to stop the channel at the 11 th hour from beaming the show which was supposed to have been ­flighted at 9.30pm. Moja Love did not oppose the interdict after the channel’s no-nonsense boss, Aubrey Tau, refused to allow the couple to tinker with the channel’s production policy. Moja Love’s lawyer, Simphiwe Shoba of Fluxmans Attorneys, confirmed the couple had obtained the interim interdict against the channel. He said the interdict would be challenged on April 22. In the founding affidavit, Mampintsha said he had met Jub Jub Maarohanye, the show’s producer, on November 11 last year and they had agreed to collaborate in producing the reality show about his record label, West Ink. He said the reality show, which would include day-to-day operations of the label’s business and his and Babes Wodumo’s personal lives, would be edited and produced as reality television.   As you well know, the past few days have been been difficult for us, our fans, and our family members due to material posted on social media about us. We noted with great concern your comments and expressions of disappointment at us. We wish to assure you that your disapointment is of great regret to us, as we only seek to entertain you during the times of disappointment, and not the opposite. As your entertainers, and sometimes inspires, we always strive to keep you seeing us in a good light. However, as human beings, we accept with regret that we will fail you at times. Be assured though that we strive to grow and mature not only as persons but as a couple not immune to fault and imperfections. Our closest friends whom we trust deeply, will confirm that like all couples, we are also have our ups and downs.  We recorded a reality show with intentions to show you our lives in respect of a company we have built with your support, West Ink. The show could not have taken place with parts of our lives being shown. We are greatful that you have supported us during this difficult time, and the Courts have, with great relief, come to our assistance. This issue is with our attorneys now and we request any other questions be directed to our respective attorneys. @official_jubjub @babes_wodumo @mojalovetv A post shared by  Mandla Maphumulo (@mampintsha_shimora) on Jan 23, 2020 at 10:30am PST  “However, I had agreed with the first respondent that prior to airing on television as contemplated, I would be involved in editing the material that would eventually have to be broadcast as intended,” read the papers. Mampintsha said although they didn’t have a written agreement, they started recording the show on November 18, completing it after six days. He said the recording included quarrels between him and Babes Wodumo and other interactions with her. He also said Jub Jub allowed him to edit the first clip that he wanted to air on the channel to test the viewer’s appetite for the show. The musician said he was surprised when Jub Jub published on Instagram a trailer clip of him and Babes Wodumo quarrelling on January 17 and announced that its full version would be aired on the channel on January 23. He said he asked Jub Jub to remove the clip from Instagram and the presenter agreed to do so, but reposted the same video on January 23. He also said he asked Jub Jub to sign a contract with him before the show could be ­flighted but he ignored him, noting that he tried in vain to call him to get an assurance that he would not include the adverse aspects of his personal life in the show. The artist said he obtained the interdict after Jub Jub ignored his pleas to remove the clip from the social media and not to flight it on the channel. By Ngwako Malatji