Baroka FC boss Khurishi Mphahlele and his disputed wife Reneilwe Mphahlele are involved in a bloodlettting derby over their multimillion-rand Joburg mansion. Khurishi wanted to kick Reneilwe out of their matrimonial house in Bryanston, which he bought for R3.6-million several years ago. News of their fight came to the fore after Khurishi filed papers in the Joburg High Court on Thursday, January 16 in which he applied for a court order to move back into
the property he vacated two years ago. He also wanted Reneilwe to be kicked out of the house and to move into their Polokwane house in Limpopo, which he said she was renting out for R30 000 a month. According to court papers in possession of Sunday World, Khurishi said he vacated the house on August 30 2018 after Reneilwe obtained a protection order against him at the Randburg magistrate’s court. Khurishi, who is currently living in Lebowakgomo in Limpopo, has now asked for the order to occupy the house with immediate effect as he was the only account holder of the bond
with Standard Bank. Explaining why he vacated the house, Khurishi said Reneilwe arrived sloshed in the house they shared together and was aggressive towards him on August 25 2018. “An impasse between us ensued and in order to avoid unnecessary and undue conflict, I voluntarily moved out of the shared residence,” states the court papers. He said he vacated the house after reporting her to the Randburg police station the same day. He said Reneilwe later obtained a protection order against him at the Randburg magistrate’s court on August 30 2018 after complaining that she feared for her life. He said he didn’t oppose the protection order as he expected her to move out and go and live in their Polokwane house. But she didn’t and instead she filed for divorce, which he said he was contesting because he was not married to her. He said when he entered into the marriage with her he was still
married to his wife in a civil marriage. Khurishi said he was in financial doldrums and could no longer afford to pay for the bond on the house because he didn’t live there. He said he was also paying maintenance for Reneilwe’s four children – three of whom are not his. “I am currently swimming in debt while the first respondent [Reneilwe] has the luxury of living in comfort at my expense,” he complained. He said he wanted to sell the house but couldn’t do so as long as Reneilwe continued to live there. Attempts to get comment from Reneilwe drew a blank. By Ngwako Malatji
ngwakom@sundayworld.co.za