Johannesburg – The number of new coronavirus cases in South Africa has risen by 4011 in the past 24 hours. According to the department of health, this takes the culminative number of cases in the country to 821 889. “A cumulative 5 640 042 tests have been completed, of which 28 127 have been conducted since the last report. Regrettably, 183 deaths have been reported which brings the total to 22 432 deaths,” the department of health said.   Be warned The International Criminal Police Organisation (Interpol) has warned the public of potential criminal elements seeking to exploit the global community in relation to the COVID-19 and flu vaccines. With the pandemic having already triggered unprecedented opportunistic and predatory criminal behaviour, Interpol – in an orange notice on Monday – said the swindling is expected to be in relation to the falsification, theft and illegal advertising of COVID-19 and flu vaccines. This also includes examples of crimes where individuals have been advertising, selling and administering fake vaccines. “As a number of COVID-19 vaccines come closer to approval and global distribution, ensuring the safety of the supply chain and identifying illicit websites selling fake products will be essential,” said the organisation. Interpol said law enforcement and health regulatory bodies will need to heighten coordination, as this “will also play a vital role to ensure the safety of individuals and wellbeing of communities”. “As governments are preparing to roll out vaccines, criminal organisations are planning to infiltrate or disrupt supply chains. “It is essential that law enforcement is as prepared as possible for what will be an onslaught of all types of criminal activity linked to the COVID-19 vaccine, which is why Interpol has issued this global warning,” said Interpol Secretary General, Jürgen Stock. Stock warned that criminal networks will also target unsuspecting members of the public via fake websites and false cures, which could pose a significant risk to their health, even their lives. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World Ashley Lechman