Couple exposed for failure to honour Ladysmith gig It seems West Ink boss Mampintsha and his on-and-o girlfriend Babes Wodumo can’t stop being in the news for the wrong reasons. Ladysmith-based businessman Siyabonga Mdluli is accusing the Phakamisa hitmaker of owing him R80 000 after he failed to honor his booking for the New Year’s Eve crossover event along with his controversial girlfriend and singer Babes Wodumo. Sunday World is in possession of the proof of payments, including the WhatsApp messages between Mampintsha, Babes Wodumo and Mdluli. Mampintsha, whose real name is Mandla Maphumulo, and Babes Wodumo (Bongekile Simelane) were allegedly booked through their respective companies, West Ink and Wodumo
Entertainment. According to event organiser Mdluli, Mampintsha and Babes were paid upfront through their companies. “I’ve had enough of Mampintsha and Babes Wodumo. They failed to prioritise our event yet we paid them in full. We even agreed that since they claimed that they had too many gigs on that night, we agreed that they can come and perform early, around 6pm on that day,” Mdluli said. “Mampintsha called me and asked that they can be moved to 2am in the morning. Everything was going according to plan until they started ignoring our calls, WhatsApp and text messages. “We had a tough time trying to make people understand that the car that they were travelling in broke down. DJ Sthelo was the one who rescued us on that day. They must pay back our money and we don’t want any stories from them. “We want our money and we don’t want to deal with them in future.” He continued: “Mampintsha was the one who begged us to book Babes Wodumo too. We were not interested in booking Babes Wodumo but Mampintsha convinced me that I book her too since they are a couple. “I regret accepting that proposal because the signs were there that they were after money, not to come and perform for the people of Ladysmith.” The couple had not responded to messages sent to them at the time of going to press. By Philani Mzila