Ex-president’s son downplays sex symbol status This Valentine’s month, women of Mzansi are head over heels for Duduzane Zuma. The son of former president Jacob Zuma is a babe magnet whose walk, talk and charm has ladies calling him to be head of state. But he says he has no desire to be a politician. A focused businessman, the 36-year-old, who is media shy, granted Gagasi FM a candid interview last week about what makes him tick. Social media has caused a storm over his good looks and rumours that he is working his way into politics, after being seen at ANC rallies recently. But Duduzane said he only “heard” about it as he doesn’t have any social media accounts. “All those accounts you see are parody accounts. I am not on Twitter, Facebook or Instagram – not even MixIt,” he told DJ Warras, noting that he didn’t understand the hype as he had always attended ANC events when he was available to do so. ”Now all of a Sunday, people seem surprised,” he said. Last year at the Zondo Commission probing allegations of state capture, he explained with poise how he had unfairly been depicted as the face of corruption. “I am looked at as a criminal, and this face of corruption, this guy who has plundered trillions out of this country, which is not the case by the way. So I would just like to say to the public out there, I’m not corrupt. “I’m not taking money from anyone. I don’t care how they [the public] take it. But I just want to make that clear.” He was acquitted of culpable homicide in July last year aftter Phumzile Dube died after a taxi she was travelling in collided with Duduzane’s Porsche in 2014. The wheel has since turned. He said on That Drive Show the reason he was seen less was because he was dealing with serious things. “I dealt with massive pitfalls and took a step back.” His song of choice during the show was Jay-Z’s Guilty Until Proven Innocent. The businessman, who spends most of his time in Dubai, and doesn’t smoke or drink alcohol, said he was now ready to accept the support South Africans are showing him. Asked if he was embracing the “bad boy appeal”, he shyly stated: “Look, I appreciate the love and support. We have those who speak well and others who don’t. Feeling the love is encouraging. I was hoping to have sidestepped it [questions about the bad boy image]. I’ve got nothing to say about that. I’m me.” Married to Shanice Stork since May 2015, he said they were mature enough not to squabble over the flirtatious comments of late. But he didn’t dismiss the idea of polygamy. “We are grown up, we deal with these interesting dynamics as we go along. About polygamy… it was my life. I was about 10 when I was exposed to it. As a young kid we have ideas of what a family structure should be. I figured it out. I look back and it was a tough period. I respected it as I grew older. “When my mom passed in 2000, I valued the support structure of an extended family. I respect the basis of polygamy. I respect what it stands for. In 10 years’ time we can have the
discussion of polygamy.” Duduzane, who was raised in Maputo, is Duduzile Zuma’s twin. Their mother, Kate Mantsho, married the former president in 1976 and the couple had five children. Mantsho committed suicide in 2000. Duduzane always knew he was different because of his father’s political standing. “It was not my dream to be an entrepreneur. I needed to do it and I realised I could do it. My entrepreneurial journey is about adding value. In 10 years’ time – no plan to run for president. “I find the support overwhelming, but I don’t know what I’ll be doing then,” he explained. By Somaya Stockenstroom