Nchabeleng joins likes of Lesufi Former Limpopo provincial government spokesman and now premier Stanley Mathabatha’s chief of staff, Mogale Nchabeleng, has been tipped by ANC branches to become the next leader of Sekhukhune region, the most influential region in Limpopo’s ANC politics. Nchabeleng will be joining a long list of former spin doctors, among them current Gauteng MEC for education Panyaza Lesufi, Freddy Greaver and Andries Sebola, who have gone on to occupy executive positions in the government and the ANC. Lesufi moved from being spokesman for the basic education department to becoming deputy chairman in Gauteng and education MEC in the country’s economic hub. Greaver served the Limpopo government as education spokesman and later served in the same capacity for the provincial treasury before he led the Polokwane municipality as executive mayor. Nchabeleng’s name is among the powerful names slated to take over the leadership of the region from Stan Ramaila.  Nchabeleng is considered a favourite contender for the throne. Nchabeleng confirmed he had agreed to a proposal by branch leaders to consider running for the chairmanship of the ANC in Sekhukhune, his home region. “They asked about my availability to lead the region and though reluctant I was amenable to persuasion. They insistently said they believe that I could add the requiste value to the organisation.” Unlike Greaver, Nchabeleng said he has never been completely out of politics in his more than 19 years in government as an administrator. The longest-serving official in the premier’s office, Nchabeleng has worked under all four administrations in the province, from premier Ngoako Ramatlhodi, Sello Moloto, Cassel Mathale and now Mathabatha, who is now in his second term as premier. However, despite all this commitment in government, Nchabeleng said he had never ceased to participate actively in politics. He said he has always been and still is an active member of ANC Lawrence Phokanoka branch in Sekhukhune region. Nchabeleng has also served three consecutive terms as SACP chairman in the Capricorn District, from 2005 unti he resigned in 2015. Before that, he said he served as a member of the ANC Youth League provincial executive committee under the leadership of David Masondo, now deputy minister of finance, who was chairman between 2003 and 2005. Part of Nchabeleng’s credentials, used by his lobbyists as they go around Sekhukhune trying to win over branches is his history in student movement Sasco.  They said he played an important role in servicing students’ needs at the University of Limpopo during his tenure as deputy president of the student representative council. These details, his supporters argue, are an indication that Nchabeleng has the administrative and political experience to take the region to greater heights. He reportedly has the backing of Mathabatha and ANC provincial treasurer Danny Msiza. If elected at the ANC regional elective conference earmarked for May, Nchabeleng will play a key role in deciding who becomes the next leader of Limpopo. By Aubrey Mothombeni
mothombenia@sundayworld.co.za