Employees allege sex abuse, corruption South African State Theatre (SAST) artistic director Aubrey Sekhabi has been accused of corruption. A letter detailing alleged malfeasance was sent anonymously to the Department of Arts and Culture pleading for ministerial intervention and investigation. In the letter, the award-winning playwright is accused of verbal and sexual harassment and firing employees at the theatre for  flimsy reasons. An example is given of a manager who was suspended for allowing surbordinates time off after they worked overtime. Sekhabi confirmed that he was aware of the e-mail sent to the department. He dismissed the claims against him. “This is a smear campaign meant to malign me,” he said. The letter also states that the aggrieved employees had asked for a meeting with the CEO to pour their hearts out, but Sekhabi was delegated to represent the CEO. In turn, employees opted for the adjournment of the meeting. “The reason for that was that employees could not voice out their grievances freely to the same man who is the reason for the circumstances. In this regard, the frustrated employees, who happened to have worked under the same conditions for years, are scared and fed up and ask the council and the minister of arts and culture to intervene and oust the man,” reads the e-mail. “The said employees chose to remain anonymous for fear of victimisation by the man because he operates like the apartheid regime where employees do not have rights in the workplace,” it continues. SAST spokesman Thakgatso Setsetsa confirmed that the organisation was aware of the details of the e-mail, which it has responded to when questioned by the department. “The SAST is aware of anonymous smear letters making such allegations, which were sent to the department and referred to SAST. The theatre responded in detail to those allegations, which were driven by emotions and not based on facts,” he said. He said the theatre had not received any official complaint from the human resource department, the office of the CEO or any higher authority regarding the sexual abuse allegations. “The SAST does not discipline people based on smear letters. Nobody has come forward to say they have been ill-treated by Aubrey Sekhabi or provide evidence of corruption.” By Boitumelo Kgobotlo
kgobotlob@sundayworld.co.za