The reading of late Parktown Boys’ High School pupil Enoch Mpianzi’s letter of his hopes and dreams sparked emotions and tears from mourners at his funeral yesterday, with some of his family members fainting and seeking medical attention. The funeral service was held at Kensington Secondary School hall in the east of Joburg. In the letter, read out by his aunt Debora Kodiemoka, which painted his shortlived dreams, Mpianzi had asked God to give his mother a job so she could afford to take him to one of
the best schools this year. “What I would like God to do for me. I would like God to help me pay for my school fees, to help me broaden my ability in sports, to help me make good friends, to help me make
it from grade 8 to grade 12… “I want God to give my mother a job, for God to give us a safe place to live in joy, for God to bless my mom to be there on my wedding day,” she read from the letter, tears streaming down. Mpianzi also wished to own a PlayStation and to have his mother there when he walks in his gown on his graduation day. But his dreams were cut short after losing his life at a school camp at Nyati Bush and Riverbreak lodge in the first week of school. Another aunt, Sandra Boketsu, later fainted while trying to recall some of her favourite memories of her nephew and paramedics had to treat her. However, EFF spokesman Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said he felt that the government did not do its best in ensuring that every school was the best – so Mpianzi would not need
to choose schools. Continuously glancing at the parents, who looked back in silent grief, Ndlozi said: “When they read the hopes of the young man lying in front of us today, he went to this school because they believed it is a better school, because we still live in a country where there are ‘better schools’ and these schools are found in white communities. “These schools are under white management, these schools are expensive to enter, that is where proper education is found. If you went to Parktown Boys’ High, you’ve got a better chance of getting into Wits University. If you went to Parktown Boys’ High, you’ve the better chances of finding a job after school,” he said, urging for education to become a government priority. Mpianzi’s father, Guy Intamba, bravely went to the podium to say his last goodbye to their fourth and last-born son. “I am very proud to have been your father. I will continue to be the best father for your brothers and to seek peace as you wished,” he said. Mpianzi was buried at Westpark Cemetery. By Boitumelo Kgobotlo
kgobotlob@sundayworld.co.za