These women pull no punches around issues of divorce and heartache Businesswomen Farah Fortune and Lucille Gumbi are getting intimate in a new venture – According To Us. The relationship- focused show debuted on YouTube last week and had 1 500 views in only four days. Dressed in sexy bedroom attire, lying in bed, the two don’t hold back as they discuss divorce and heartbreak. In episode one, Fortune, the founder of African Star Communications, reveals how she cut up her ex-hubby of 14 years’ favourite and most expensive sneakers to deal with the heartbreak. Gumbi, who divorced comedian Trevor Gumbi in 2017, admits that the last three years of marriage was when she was most heartbroken and that it caused her weight loss. Fortune replies: “The only way to get over someone is to get under someone.” Why a show like this is necessary is because they want to be more accessible to women by having real conversations. “Both Lucille and I run our own entities and deal with women empowerment on a daily basis. So we thought this would give us a bigger platform to do so,” says Fortune. Both women admit that they did not seek permission from their exes to discuss personal material. “We are not unique in our experiences either and doing this together gave us an even bigger voice. Also, my ex isn’t in my industry. I actually don’t know if he’s watched it, LOL! “But it’s important to start having more open conversations so women know that they’re not alone. We wanted to connect through conversations that were real and
raw.” Gumbi says the vision started as a TV show, but they knew a TV station would find it hard to commission without a sponsor. “We knew that should not stop us. Luckily there are other platforms, which we could use to achieve the same objective. It’s important for women to have a support system. “Women are going through so much, especially in our country at the moment, and we would like to give realistic opinions and information to women. Information which will teach them or help them in current situations in their lives. We hope to help them make positive changes in a fun, thought-provoking, inspiring and candid way.” Fortune says the plan is to discuss topics around business, women, men, family and other dynamics affecting women, and to invite guests to their bedroom. “The vision is for it to be permanent. We do believe that the content will be shared with discretion and not take away from it being honest. “We don’t envision the show affecting our current business ventures negatively at all,” says Gumbi, explaining that they will also discuss women and intimacy, body image and personal branding. Episode two will feature on March 2. By Somaya Stockenstroom 