High end fashion designer David Tlale teamed up with age old beauty brand Avon in a beauty collaboration that is the first for Africa. Rated the world’s fourth biggest beauty company, Avon, announced that together they will produce a collection of accessories. The designs are based on the modern African woman who loves colours. It includes a scarf, a tote bag, a sling bag and a pair of sunglasses. “It is based on who we are as South Africans,” said Tlale. The price points are between R 299 to R 799. “I want the women to feel good supporting a local design house,” he said.   #DavidTlalexAvon Available 1st March!!! Proudly South African  Link in bio A post shared by  David Tlale (@davidtlale) on Feb 18, 2020 at 10:08am PST  Tlale confirmed that his materials are sourced from all over the world but the prints are made in his studio in central Johannesburg. The designer has been collaborating with various brands such as Courvoisier and Tastic.   Oh What A Night! Last night at the #Avon #DavidTlaleXAvon launch where the new campaign for @davidtlale’s @avonsouthafrica range of accessories was launched. Beautiful, stylish and empowering. Bag, clutch, glasses and scarf. Contact an Avon rep or order online: http://bit.ly/DavidTlalePage #empoweredbydesign A post shared by  TATUM (@tatumkeshwar) on Feb 19, 2020 at 1:52am PST  “We are excited to collaborate with Tlale on this venture as we believe that it gives our trend-conscious customers the opportunity to accessorize with the most desirable pieces by one of South Africa’s most iconic designers. As Avon, we are bringing the catwalk to the sidewalk. This partnership harnesses the synergies inherent in each of the brands and demonstrates what can be achieved when two household names join forces. David Tlale is an aspirational brand that resonates with many discerning and fashion-savvy customers, particularly young people,” said Momin Hukamdad, executive commercial marketing director at Avon Justine. “We look forward to bringing his magic to everyone, from the streets of Soweto and Gugulethu to the boulevards of Sandton and Camps Bay. Through this partnership, we will be offering our customers the trendiest and most fashionable accessories that have, until now, been out of reach for many of them,” said Hukamdad. By Nokuthula Zwane