Corruption buster accused of graft Joburg’s city manager Dr Ndivhoniswani Lukhwareni is in hot water for allegedly sitting on a report that advised him to put former head of the Hawks in Gauteng and City of Joburg
head of group forensic investigations services, Shadrack Sibiya, on precautionary suspension. Sunday World can reveal that Lukhwareni was sent a forensic report by Bowman Gilfillan on August 12 last year, which found that there was prima facie evidence to support allegations of misconduct against Sibiya, among them nepotism, destroying evidence, appointing a convicted diamond smuggler, conniving to irregularly dispose of disciplinary hearings, and targeting senior employees who did not agree with him. However, despite receipt of this report with clear recommendations that Sibiya be put on ice, senior officials in the city revealed Lukhwareni failed to take action against Sibiya and
six months later, the report is still gathering dust in his office. The investigations by Bowman Gilfillan had found that Sibiya, as claimed by his senior colleagues, had indeed played a role in the appointment of his friend and self-proclaimed blesser, Serge Cabonge’s wife, Dangwana, and his friend’s husband, known only as Philip, without following due process. City of Joburg spokesman Nthatisi Modingoane said the issue was an “administrative matter which falls in the realm of the city manager”, and it had nothing to do with the new mayor, Geoff Makhubo. Modingoane later said the report was withdrawn by Bowman Gilfillan. Lukhwareni asked that the story be postponed to next week to give him time to comment. Sibiya told Sunday World that those who commissioned the report were themselves tainted and under investigation. He said his side of the story had not been sought by Bowmans. “There was no way the city manager could act on a malicious investigation that had been rescinded by the same law firm,” he said. A source said the prevarication around the report creates an untenable situation for the city as its main corruption buster faces allegations of malfeasance. “The corruption fighter has effectively become a rogue,” said the source. Among other allegations investigated by Bowman Gilfillan were claims that Sibiya advised one of his colleagues, advocate Nombulelo Mahanjana, who faced serious charges of misconduct, to obtain a fake sick note so he could help her retain her job. Though other allegations were found to be without merit, the investigators revealed that witnesses – mostly senior employees in Sibiya’s unit – provided them with evidence backing the claims against their boss. Bowman Gilfillan said it was provided with audio recordings and WhatsApp messages proving that indeed Sibiya employed his friend’s husband, Philip, who had been convicted of diamond smuggling, without following processes. The report indicates, though, that claims that Sibiya had secured a job for his niece could not be proven. Other allegations levelled against Sibiya that were also found to have merit by the investigations included claims that Sibiya had destroyed evidence implicating Mahanjana in wrongdoing by deleting information on his phones and laptops. The investigators said Sibiya’s conduct warranted a thorough investigation and recommended that he be put on precautionary suspension as there was prima facie evidence implicating him, especially on allegations of nepotism and ¤ outing of recruitment processes. The report states that Sibiya’s advice to Mahanjana to obtain a fraudulent medical certificate proved that he had an agenda to save her despite facing serious allegations. By Aubrey Mothombeni
Mothombenia@sundayworld.co.za