Qgom artist wants R200k from DJs who stole his shine Durban-based gqom artist Biggie is demanding that DJ Websta and international gqom producer DJ Lag pay him his dues. He wants R200 000 for the songs he made with them. Biggie claims that the DJs failed to pay him a cent for the songs he did with DJ Webster (Wobaleka), DJ Lag (Jika) and Nu
Era (Iyakhuluma). Biggie, whose real name is Njabulo Zondi from KwaMashu in Durban, has recently released his single titled Lokishi Lami under the label Charlie Communication. He told Sunday World that he spent two years in and out of King Dinuzulu Complex Hospital, formerly known as King George Hospital in Durban, because of depression and heart failure. “I’m not speaking out because I want people or music lovers to hate them. I want Webster and Lag to do the honourable thing and pay me what is due to me. I’m the reason those songs were on high rotation both on radio and TV.  “Both of them were gigging because of those songs. I have never received a cent from them. I have never even been invited to come and perform in any of the gigs they have been doing
because of those songs. I want my money,” said Biggie, who was readmitted to hospital during the first week of January and then spent nearly a month there. Sevi Spanoudi, DJ Lag’s Manager, said that the DJ neither owed Biggie a cent nor caused his illness. Biggie said that it was painful that he had to be admitted at a public hospital while the songs he made with DJ Websta and Lag were well- received and played across different radio stations and TV stations. “The reason I want them to pay me R200 000 in total is because both of them [Webster and Lag] were busy getting bookings because of the songs that I was instrumental in using my voice. Some event organisers even asked me why I don’t come to their gigs when they book both DJs. That thing sent me straight to the hospital bed. I was admitted twice last year,” he said, sobbing. Biggie further said: “The doctors told me that I was under a lot of stress. They even suggested that I take a break from music as it was clear that I was very close to being struck by a stroke.  “I had to rely on Dladla Mshunqisi and other friends to be able to buy healthy food because I couldn’t afford what the doctors suggested I eat. “It’s sad because they are living a good life while I ’m struggling.” DJ Websta denied owing Biggie. He demanded that facts must be put on the table first and said till then he’s dreaming. By Philani Mzila *Correction:  On Sunday February 23 , 2020, Sunday World published that ‘DJ Wester’ was involved in the DJ dispute.  However, Sunday World made an error and published the incorrect image and name. The correct name is Dj Websta. Apologies to those affected. .