We are living in a time of great change, change so great that people are calling it a revolution – the Fourth Industrial Revolution, in fact – or 4IR for short – and it’s in the process of changing our lives as individuals, as well as the nature of the societies we live in, beyond recognition. It’s an exciting time, but many people are fearful. Robots will take our jobs, many say. Computerisation of everything usurps our individuality. It’s a worry for many that the data that underlies our access to everything from banks to the clothing we order threatens our privacy, our very identities. And are the algorithms of artificial intelligence that send advertisements directly to us, targeting our tastes, and telling us what we like, robbing us of our freedom of choice? But we say: human striving has always been there to make the world better, not worse. What if instead of fear we have hope. If instead of mistrust we have optimism, and if instead of thinking of what we might lose, we think of how much we can gain if we do things in the right way – for ourselves, for our societies, for our planet – how much better would our world be, equally, for all of us. People look around and see whole categories of jobs disappearing, but what of all the other new and different jobs that are needed to replace them? What’s more: if we can build machines to build other machines, then can we not build these new jobs into new ways of teaching and learning? There are systems that speak to each other rather than to us, some say. But we say: we can speak to each other about how to maximise the benefits. We believe that people will always be needed, especially for ethical discussion, and ensuring equality of access and advantage. We need to think and act to make the world we are building a world for all of us – to have better opportunities, study more productively, work more creatively, and live safer, longer lives. So if artificial intelligence can give us wheelchairs that climb stairs, or navigation apps that can help the blind negotiate their world; if bionic limbs and exoskeletons can be operated by thought alone – then how can we ensure that all the people who need breakthrough technologies like these, benefit equally, wherever they are? And if machine learning can take over myriad tasks, then surely everything from mining to flying a plane, or even crossing the road can be made safer. And if access to information, justice and equality can be facilitated with less effort and expense, then how does society maximise the opportunities for all? And crucially – how do we find, develop and train the as yet undiscovered talent in our societies so that new job-finders can do the jobs they do with readiness and confidence? It’s a daunting challenge, and it’s an ongoing journey, but it’s one that we, at the University of Johannesburg, with our quest for global excellence, and as an academic and research leader in Africa, are undertaking with energy and commitment. And we invite everyone to join us, in whatever capacity, on our quest to meet these challenges with the right questions, in pursuit of the right answers, for the benefit of all of us, our continent and the world we share. 4IR may be a virtual world of ideas, but the quality of everyone’s reality is crucial, as we all seek to ensure that physical, technological and economic equality, and the ethics that underpin it, are woven into the fabric of our future. So – what if we all worked together to make certain that 4IR works for us, not against us, for better medical care; for more innovative jobs and the innovative education they will require; for equal opportunity and access, for safer, happier lives where getting the basics does not mean losing the heritage of our planet. We see the hope in all this, the excitement and energy, the urgency. We recognise this as the time to work towards a brighter future for everyone, everywhere – the time to truly reimagine the future. Visit http://www.uj.ac.za/4IR for more. Brett