Decorated actor said to be happy Award-winning actor Siyabonga Thwala is allegedly joining Imbewu. Thwala, who plays Mpiyakhe Zungu in one of Mzansi Magic’s biggest soapies, Isibaya, was allegedly placed on special leave after being accused of demanding a pay hike and script changes. Sunday World has learned from two independent sources who did not want to be named that the veteran actor will be joining e.tv’s soapie. It is unclear if he will remain on Isibaya. A crew member, who works for the Bomb Shelter, which produces Isibaya, said Thwala had hinted that he was happy to be part of the Imbewu cast. “I heard this information but as you know, I am not at liberty to talk about this,” explained the crew member. Script editor and radio producer Msizi Nkosi revealed the same news through a Facebook post. “Siyabonga Thwala will be … joining Imbewu on e.tv. You won’t find this report anywhere else,” wrote Nkosi. When contacted, Nkosi did not respond to messages. Isibaya producer Desireé Markgraaff said that Thwala was still very much part of the soapie but was unable to shoot at the moment because he was based in KwaZulu-Natal. “Mr Thwala has not left the show, however, due to COVID-19 travel restrictions, he is not currently shooting as he and his family are KZN-based and, therefore, he cannot travel up and down as he usually does,” said Markgraaff. “We will be filming with the Johannesburg cast and crew, there are many other wonderful stories and characters,” explained Markgraaff, adding that “Isibaya is an ensemble show and has many great actors and characters”. Thwala was not available for comment at the time of publication. e.tv managing director Marlon Davids was unable to confirm whether the veteran actor had scooped a role in the award-winning Imbewu. “Kindly note that the details of upcoming storylines are confidential to the production,” said Davids. Last month, Isibaya had bid farewell to actresses Nomzamo Mbatha and Jessica Nkosi, as well as veteran actor Menzi Ngubane. Nkosi and Ngubane have since joined the cast of The Queen, also on Mzansi Magic. 