Nurses say actor is in a critical but stable condition Legendary actor Menzi Ngubane is fighting for his life at Charlote Maxeke Hospital in Joburg. Ngubane , who played Judas Ngwenya in Mzansi Magic drama Isibaya, was admitted to the hospital this week after complaining about not feeling well. After undergoing a battery of tests, Ngubane, who underwent a successful kidney transplant about 10 years ago, was admitted to the high-care transplant unit, where he is said to be in a critical but stable condition. A hospital staff member, who did not want to be named because he is not allowed to speak to the media, confirmed that Ngubane, who has since joined The Queen, was languishing at the hospital. The staffer said although the details of his illness were foggy, it appears that Ngubane suffered complications related to the transplant. “Initially the information that we got was that he had contracted meningitis but that appeared not to be true after they moved him to the highcare transplant unit,” said the staffer. An Isibaya crew member confirmed that Ngubane was in hospital. The member of the crew said the nurse who answered the phone call in Ngubane’s ward also confirmed that the former Gaz’lam actor was gravely ill. The crew member said when they enquired if they could visit him, the nurse said no one except Ngubane’s wife, Sikelelwa “Siki” Ngubane (nee Sishuba), was allowed to visit the award-winning thespian, who played Ngamla in South Africa’s second-biggest soapie Generations. “The nurse said Menzi was in highcare transplant unit and, due to COVID-19 pandemic, no visitors bar his wife are allowed to see him,” said the crew member. The hospital staffer also asked South Africans to pray for Ngubane’s speedy recovery. “This is a good hospital, he is in good hands, just ask South Africans to pray for him,” said the staff member. Ngubane’s wife said she would consult with the prolific actor’s family before commenting. “You are putting me between a rock and a hard place. It’s a private ma er. I didn’t want it to be in the papers, but let me consult with the family  first and I will come back to you,” she said. She had not done so at the time of printing. 