Actress to be part of the main cast of the soapie Three-time Safta award-winning actress Brenda Ngxoli has staged a major TV comeback after seven years off the screen. The former Rockville actress has been added to the main cast of Mzansi Magic soapie The Queen for season 5, which was recently commissioned by the channel. News about Ngxoli’s new-found home comes after the Fergusons announced last week that they had managed to secure the services of former Isibaya actors Menzi Ngubane and Jessica Nkosi, and that SK Khoza’s character, Shaka Khoza, was being resurrected. But Ferguson Films had kept the acquisition of Ngxoli close to the chest as she was not unveiled alongside Ngubane and Nkosi. Sunday World has learnt through several officials close to the production that Ngxoli has been roped in to play NomaPrincess ‘Noma’ Matshikiza, a feisty woman vying for the queenship against Harriet Khoza, played by Connie Ferguson, the co-creator of the soapie. She will be introduced as a tender construction tycoon and Harriet Khoza’s old friend who had vanished without paying a R10-million loan debt given to her and her husband by the Khozas to finance a 2010 (Fifa) World Cup stadium building tender. The sources said the Ithemba actress was scheduled to start shooting with the soapie very soon. Ngxoli confirmed the news to Sunday World, stating that she still could not believe that she had joined the soapie. “I’m excited and still pinching myself. The best way to put it is to say that the gods have chosen to favour me. I will put my gratitude into action by giving quality work,” she said during an interview. The actress said she was happy to have been reunited with the Fergusons, indicating that the power couple had played a big role in paving the way for her comeback in the acting industry, after she had spent seven years in the villages of the Eastern Cape, where she had retreated to find herself. Ngxoli said: “I got my first Safta from my role in Rockville, where I worked with Ferguson Films. Once again, I’m back with them. “I’ve always acknowledged the big role they have played in my career and how they have treated me. “I’m turning 40, and I just want to live my best life and they have granted me that opportunity. “I can’t thank them enough along with the channel, Mzansi Magic. I’m also indebted to South African audiences who have never forgotten about me when I was not even on any production, their continued support is appreciated.” The Queen executive producer Connie Ferguson said they were excited that Ngxoli had come on board, especially since they had worked with her on Rockville before. “I can’t wait to see what she brings to this new role,” she said. Shona Ferguson, who is also an executive producer on the show, added that Ngxoli was “an amazing versatile actress, with work ethic like no other”. 