The South African Football Association (Safa) and the Premier Soccer League (PSL) joint liaison committee has resolved to form a task team to look into the possibility of when the suspended soccer season can resume. All sport, including football activities, were suspended eight weeks ago following the government’s declaration of a national lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. “Proposals on how to deal mainly with health issues and when it is safe to resume the postponed season were put forward by members of the joint liaison committee”, Safa said via a statement. “The task team’s mandate is to look into the concerns raised during the meeting and prepare submissions to the committee. The submissions will later be forward to the government for consideration. The task team has been given a maximum of 14 days to complete the document and report back to the joint liaison committee,” said Safa. The country’s two leading football organisations met for the first time since the national lockdown was declared on March 27 in response to COVID-19) to try to find common ground on their standpoint regarding a return to play of the sport. The joint liaison committee meeting comes after sports minister Nathi Mthethwa requested the national football controlling body and the professional wing to speak with one voice for the sake of the football and find common ground by jointly agreeing when it would be conducive to start playing matches again. The PSL postponed the season mid-March and the Premiership league has not seen action since due to lockdown. Government regulations state that professional sport would only return when the country is on level one. South Africa is currently on level four. Members of the task team: Advocate Tebogo Motlanthe (Safa acting CEO); Mato Madlala (PSL acting CEO); Dr Thulani Ngwenya (Safa chief medical officer); Dr Lervasen Pillay (PSL head of medical); Poobalan Govindasamy (Safa national executive committee member) and Jose Ferreira (PSL executive committee member). 