There is still no decision on when the centres will open Embattled early childhood development (ECD) centres will have to weather the storm a bit longer, with the departments of basic education and social development still thrashing out the details of how to safely reopen the sector. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga said she was still in discussions with her social development counterpart, Lindiwe Zulu, to  find a workable solution for ECDs. “The regulations for level three are being finalised and we believe there will be a solution to this matter very soon. We understand that ECDs also provide the necessary caring and feeding services for children from families,” Motshekga said. “Due and careful consideration will be made to ensure that we maintain the delicate balance between ECDs to operate [and] the safety and health of the children and their caregivers. We are working together with the Department of Social Development on this matter as it straddles both departments.” Zulu has already reiterated that all ECDs will remain closed until further notice. The ministries of social development and basic education are at an advanced stage in moving the ECD function from the Department of Social Development to the Department of Basic Education. Sunday World last month reported that a study compiled by Ilifa Labantwana, the Nelson Mandela Foundation, the National ECD Alliance, Smartstart and the South African Congress for Early Childhood Development, painted a grim picture for the sector. The study found that 99% of operators reported that parents had stopped paying fees owing to the lockdown, while 83% of ECDs had not been able to pay the full salaries of staff over the lockdown period. According to the study, 96% of them reported that their income was not enough to pay their operating costs. Mary Mokoena*, an ECD owner in Katlehong, east of Joburg, said she had been struggling to put food on the table since the lockdown. “It has been tough. We thought as regulations are being relaxed and more workers are allowed to go back to work, the government will allow us to operate. I have had minimal income in the last two months as most parents claim to have had their salaries cut or stopped from coming to work,” Mokoena said. She continued: “At the same time, we understand that the safety of children comes first. I just hope we have clarity soon or I might be forced to close shop permanently.” Kabelo Khumalo