Former Bafana star scored R10-million from businessman Retired footballer Jimmy Tau and a well-known businessman have also benefitted from controversial businessman and ANC el patron Edwin Sodi’s largesse. The business tycoon, who is known to Sunday World, cannot be named for legal reasons. Sodi, the owner of Black-head Consulting, was this week arrested with six other suspects by the Hawks. He was charged with corruption, fraud and money laundering, among others, for his role in the R250-million dodgy asbestos contract in the Free State. According to a report compiled by investigators of Zondo Commission of inquiry into Al-
legations of State Capture, Black-head paid Tau a total of R10-million, even though the SuperSport soccer analyst had nothing to do with the asbestos deal. The report also stated that Sodi, who reportedly scored at least R2-billion worth of con- tracts from the government, told the investigators that he had paid the former soccer star the monies because he worked for him as a business development manager to source new opportunities. “Although Mr Tau had nothing to do with the asbestos audit in the Free-State, he may have been paid R10-million [per the interview with Mr Sodi, which he backtracked on per his signed statement and confirmed the amount as R3-million], which were proceeds generated from the asbestos audit in the Free State. In this regard, various transactions in Blackhead’s accounts with debit descriptions reflected as “Jimmy Tau” were identified,” the papers read. The papers further show that the analysis of Blackhead’s two Absa accounts indicate that between March 2013 and March 2019, over R3.8-million was paid to the former Bafana Bafana star. According to the report, R1.9-million was also paid to Mercedez-Benz in Sandton on April 23 2014, with the bank statement description(s) reflected as “Jimmy Tau”. The tycoon, according to the report, also appears to have scooped a R1-million exotic vehicle paid for by Sodi’s company in May 2015. According to the report, a payment was made to SM Trading Group, a car dealership in Ballito. While the investigators said the
reference on the statement was “Thabani Zulu”, the dealership confirmed the payment went toward the sale of a Maserati to “[name withheld]. ” To date, the KwaZulu-Natal con-
struction mogul has not been interviewed by investigators.” The businessman said he was shocked by the allegations and threatened to sue the commission if the contents of the report about him are made public. “I don’t own that kind of a car,” he said. Tau ignored our calls and messages sent to him. Ngwako Malatji